
		My name is Virgil Tellurian.

	My father was a farmer on a small plot of land and incurred a great amount of debt. Not through any wastefulness, like gambling, but by repeat misfortune. One year, his well ran dry, so he had to accept credit for Dowsers and men to dig another well. Soon afterward, some pethy mites (a magic infestation) ate all but 1/8 of our cotton. This became more debt: to get rid of the mites, to treat the land, and for the food we could not afford for the whole year. By this time I was three.
	Luckily, Lawrence Muav wanted more laborers for his own cotton. He offered to cover our debts and keep my father out of debtors prison for ten years labor in return. If my father disliked indenture, he had this sense not to show it to any of us or Senior Mauv. (Senior is an assumed title. Knowing he was not nobility, but still desirous of recognition of his wealth, he demanded others call him senior as in "Joe Jones, senior.")
	My father (Artaud), though, did not show much of anything when he was not working. He lived in a fantasy world of all his own. Sometimes that would mean sitting and drawing in the dirt for a long while of stories he seldom told us. But, another time he found out how to make paints from materials we could take without worry and painted some of our walls over the course of several months, though not all since we lived with Tek and Lydia Cesures (another family indentured to Senior Muav). Sometimes, that would mean he found a quiet place and held a pretend conversations. When I was a little older seven, I tried several times to insinuate myself into the players but stumbled by insufficient information to keep going. It is a shame he never met a bard, I have the impression my father made a consistent epic rather than a million one-act plays.
	My mother (Beverlae) had him quietly checked out by one of the parish the when they were called to christen Bopo and Ezra but the priest found no overt cause for concern. This was very much the way of my mother. She trusted most in Ra and the oblique method. She was probably more devout than the priests in the temple. Every morning she prayed, and we with her, as long as she could make us. Every sundown, a brief lamentation. Granted, there was little she could do given her few resources, her few hours, and her nonmagical status . But, when she could, she attended the sermons, consulted the priests, and brought what little she could scavenge. Ra never favored us, though my mother's commitment matched my father's navel-gazing. There may have been trivial indulgences to a self-less servant, but nothing I would point to and say prayer brought us this as it enables priests. She would deny that, every good thing we encountered or suffering avoided was intervention, though not all needed to be celebrated.
	I understand city children have Eldests who use their siblings as proving ground for testing their prowress. Pycune didn't, likely because he was expected (even if Senior Muav hadn't insisted) to work alongside our parents. Only just a man when I was four, he had inherited an empty future. Though he sometimes self-deceived, he was bonded to our parents for life, and trough them, to nine more years of indenturehood. If he were lucky, he would have five years after to establish our family and his own before our parents would demand rest, and a few after that Weh-Jas would demand they rest with her.
	He did not fight his fate overtly. Instead, he used his meaningless present as liscence to despoil all the women he could. He could only persuade one or two on the plantation. And, they only because they shared the same poverty and knew of some technique to starve the seed. Pycune betrayed their trust though, he desired many conquests and an alliance of pleasure (even a triangle) struck him as the monotony of marriage. Thus, he endeavored to achieve Sr Muav's good graces so he could accompany him on the occasional caravan to [nearest trading town]. I have no idea of his level of success, only that he met with it since he never lost an opportunity even when his schedule would be so tight as to limit him to any more than a closet scuffle (which I've never found to be worthwhile).
	Bopo and Ezra are [fraternal, opposite sex] twins of the sort that consider themselves spiritually linked. When they were of age, they did their part. Sr Muav made sure he earned every penny back. They did not givi themselves over though. Their ambitions lay in realms beyond our station, wizardry. It was a doomed hope but no less vibrant in their mind. They tried volunteering at the local parish, to our mother's delight, but knew it was only a ploy. By increasing their presence at the parish, they hoped to find a suitable person to adopt their indenture. They depended partly on Pycune's help in convincing Senior Muav to approve a trade. (One of the two deflowered tried to seduce Bopo as an emotional weapon against Pycune but only gave them blackmail against him. This is how I learned of his lechery.) The great difficulty was in finding a magically connected patron who would want both. Ezra and Bopo made laborious study to assist in the intelligence based roles (foreman and medicine/cooking). Ezra only achieved a partial success since there was not an often enough need. they never met their perfect match but found the next best (or so they thought.) An alchemist visited the parish and agreed that Ezra could be taken but had no use for Bopo. Normally, this was grounds for dismissal, but his nephew oversaw the construction of a Weh Jas temple close to his home. Seeing how long they had waited (8 years) for the perfect candidate, they decided to settle hoping they would not be kept apart too long in their duties. By this time though, I returned home less and less, so I never found out their reaction when the nephew followed work away from his uncle.
	Of all my family, only my escape was flagrant. I wanted no part in a lifetime hunched over stagnant pools and shit filled furrows. I was no snob, but I saw the force it exerted over the soul by an uncertain future thouggh an unchanging present and boon times when we had no more to eat than in drought months. Since we had sold our backs to Sr Muav, our mouths were more full of dust than soup. Really, he gave us food for one less than our number after Ezra and Bopo were born. As youngest, I was served last. My father was nearly a solipisist. Bopo and Ezra also lived independently, analysing one another's dreams or something similar. Pycune was only sometimes there, keeping with Sr Muav or intimate company.
	Luckily, There were two other boys of similar age (three months younger and five older, but he was numerically a 'year' older), they were Danuel and Baruch respectively. Baruch's family was hired rather than bought so he wasn't made to work as long as we. He Joined in anyway, he aspired no higher than his fathor's position. Baruch cared for the animals mostly and we teased him about this until he was the first of us allowed to ride a horse.
	Danuel's mother was partly indentured. Danuel's father claimed she had borne him a bastard. He left them and she appealed to Senior Muav to provide her with the means to live for her discounted labor. This didn't prevent Social ostratization for either so I felt a greater closeness to Danuel than Baruch.
	Our initial sin was shirking work. I would easily grow bored with raking out rocks or picking seeds out of cotton, sneak out to find Danuel, and we would try to convince Baruch to come with us. If we couldn't, we were okay with leaving him cleaning sheep or whatever, but certain games need more than two people and diluted blame afterward. Danuel and I then tried to down sparrows with a sling or some prank. Baruch stopped associating with us for fear of losing his privilege and from familial pressure.
	To make up for the vulnerability in fewer and because we began to receive punishments, w estarted handing out with an older boy. Godse was a dwarf and more interested in stealing than Danuel or I. He assumed a demanding demeanor but told good jokes, so it was okay. Danuel didn't like that he would get us into higher risk than we were used to, so I saw some strain. I could only really get them to agree on 'neutral' activities, like cutting holes in the chests of dresses hung to dry.
	My parents reacted ineffectually to my behavior. My father paid so little attention, he only know I roughhoused and skipped when Sr Muav came to complain. My mother tried to influence with trust rather than discipline. She would ask me where I had been instead of working while pointedly invoking her trust in me (to not lie) but sadly accepted whatever bullshit I came up with. Senior Muav and the other adults working for him began to administer the punishment they blamed my parents for not using. Finally, Sr Muav got my parents to adopt me. (I was thirteen then, one year shy of manhood.) This was secured by threatening to apply the cost of my hijinks and sabotage to their indenture. While they hesitated - not long - Bopo, Ezra, and Pycune argued to approve the transfer. They had already disowned me for reducing their standing by association. When my parents and Muav went to the Ra parish to formalize the exchange, I knew I had to begin stealing to survive rather than for pleasure. Sr Muav was certainly not going to feed me until he had eked three weeks work out of me and only 'graduate' to two meals a day after two years more. Danuel had no qualms since his mother had taken to blaming him for her problems. Two days in stockades (we had stolen cotton seed and replaced it with mustard to sell) was the last straw. After two beatings in this position, (and not by the punks my age), I knew I could never come back without turning to arson. I knew I didn't want to destroy, but would, in desperation, if made to do golem work like my dad had reduced us to.
	We only stayed with Godse for a little after that (he wansn't caught that ime and didn't want exile). Enduring his bossiness had no purpose without local ties. We joined one of the rogues we had met through him and preyed upon a larger populace by moving to [town]. I followed no ambition in burglary ; I desired liesure time above all. Danuel found no one knew he had been labeled a bastard and could pretend any life he wanted. He engaged in con games with such preference I quit him after the second time our victims managed to tar our feet after discerning we weren't selling potions of wisdom. I left a note in his sachel and sought out Fewul, a full-blood orc who headed an efficient clique of bandits. I was especially interested in leaving town as Hera priests had caught me emptying a collection box we advertised as theirs. They used me to train their clerics, both in healing and in retribution.
	A group of elves killed Fewul's parents when he was an infant as they had been burning farmland. An elven couple adopted and named him Withevine. Their intentions proved insufficient to combat the racial prejudice he faced from both adults and children, all expecting an inherent malice. Further, their methods were too lax. This stemmed from their differing timesense. They were geared towards producing long-term change in a being who had peaked when their prievious children had reached adolescence. He escaped and fell into the habits all had accused him of harboring. Their influence bore out in the super-ordinary (for orcs) intelligence he wielded. He eventually found a philosophy exploiting Lady Luck's synchronity. He maintained there are five 'archetypal' beings that represent all people and those symbolized by the same will have the exact same luck in certain circumstances. He employed it whenever he could but I mostly learned of it before our final, doomed job. He had targeted an evil wizard called Amerigatz. Fewul had studied him for a long time in between raids. He had recently splurged on a seance with one of Amerigatz's dead companions and learned he planned to attack another powerful wizard to steal his spellbooks. Fewul would lead us behind him after Amerigatz had presumably spent all his major magic. The caveat was, to prevent discovery, Amerigatz was going to allow chance to decide when he would strike. Fewul had, by this time, learnt to which of the five groups Amerigatz belonged and had a surrogate also roll dice at as close to the same time as the wiazrd would have. If the orc's 'religion' were right, they rolled the same numbers and we had the meanings from the seance. (Amerigatz had silenced a Second who vied for dominance.) All was ready.
	We eight arrived (Fewul, two more bandits he trusted, three expensive mercenaries, a Loki cleric, and I) on time. Fewul really wanted an antimagic stone but settled fer having some of us drink antimagic [spell resistence] potions. Since I didn't, I stole some magic stuff on the way into the wizard's keep. Though Fewul predicted Amerigatz's timing perfectly, he outmatched us handedly. Though Fewul's instincts were right about the wizard's personal repitiore, he didn't count on him bringing Wands of disfiguration [baleful polymorph]. By the time the bandits and I got into position to lay cover fire with crossbows (explosive arrowheads), the fighters had already become giant snails. We rogues were dispatched by his hirelings. My assailant tumbled us forward and I figured out what I had stolen: immovable rods, a lot of them (I thought they might have been wands). Disarmed, I began to wrestle so as to quickly box him in and pin him down. Amerigatz took note and waved off others who would have ended the threshing. Eventually I managed to pin him in a cloud of metal and cut his throat. Seeing my vicious inventiveness sparked his interest, so he decided to have me replace the man I killed. I was knocked out and taken along with the spellbook both he and Fewul wanted to steal.

	Therafter began the ugliest and darkest period in my life.
