[DM's name]:
Thanks for inviting me to join the party again. I am glad to hang out with you and company.
I continue to think on Supheter’s prior experience but will inform and ask you to vet the cohesion with the ongoing campaign. Creating a story whole hoc is nice, but since it exists to provide the both of us with material to create emotional investments, I prefer collaboration here.
Supheter’s human Insight came from his father, Timon Iulian. Timon, in game terms, is a bard; but, tried to forge the psychologist profession for himself. He helped people reinterpret their personal stories in an inspirational and productive manner. In our parlance, he utilized the Logotherapy and relational analysis schools for healing. I listened to many sessions over my lifetime and came to intuitively understand the common values people chained themselves to.
My mother’s family commanded a modest fortune in sheep herds and prevailed on Timon to cure her Demented uncle. Though he effected only a feeble semblance of recovery, the tight clan grew very fond of him. Ambrosia, my mother, playfully chided him during their marriage for accepting the charge solely to better know her. The union did surprise the community because her family had long promised her hand to another line with better river rights and meadows.
I shared my parent’s affections with a sister Angola two years after my own birth.
The wealth serves to explain how they afforded my apprenticeship to a local wizard. Much as my parents enjoyed their own lifestyles, they regarded wizardry as an upward class movement. [I am not sure where all this should be. You described traditions of personal apprenticeships and a wizard college. While my parents prefer I stay in their area, a boarding school would accomplish the same task.] Romulo Tepis fancied himself an anthropologist of magic. He lived amongst some of the milder kobold and orc clans, conducting interviews with their shamen and ogre mages. I absorbed ideas of (relativism?) that I heard in amplified form when I joined the [Gnostic] group later on (I will provisionally call them Enneadin).
I received a formal induction to the Enneadin when one of Romulo’s former students visited close to my ‘graduation.’ Benicio Ufelio represented a clique of wizards, warlocks, and others that formed an ideological coalition drawing from various mystic traditions, including Tepis’ research. I saw membership as an alternative to setting out alone, seeking a community to collaborate with. During the several month run up to the war, I accepted indoctrination and served as a [butler] servant coordinator for one of the elder members. Eventually, Benicio told me one of the others located a suitable position in the army serving an exemplar commander.
Here I met the future baron and served under his command as ‘grenadier.’ I often drew on my father’s techniques to keep their morale strong and bound toward the particular mission. (I learned to wear leather armor.) Though this garnered a modest promotion, my martial ignorance kept me well behind the ascendant future baron. Still, he occasionally sent private letters when a particular regiment threatened mutiny over orders. When the Queen awarded him the barony, he bade me join his cabinet.
Because the war was twenty years ago, I need you to change Supheter’s age to thirty-seven or eight. Also, the sheet lists him as 5’11”, I really meant 5’7”. The next paragraph may or may not apply depending upon whether you want me to explain my ignorance about why the party thinks Baron Harkenwood is a “bad guy.”
Shortly after arriving in captured Harkenwood, I helped establish some provisional trading with nearby communities. I returned to Harkenwood and stood beside his chair. I occasionally helped the town guard with food riots and the like. I secured several female companions but grew apart from each after a year or so. They objected to a secret I kept. Soon after I returned from the first diplomatic missions, Benicio demanded an audience. The Enneadin reminded me of the favor they provided me that grew into a political appointment. I ought invite and shield the cabal from scrutiny. I accepted.
I am strongly inclined to keep historical Gnostic cosmology as the Enneadin dogma. In effect, Supheter is a monotheist. An uberdivinity existed but spread itself into the personas we call the gods in a process that diminished their holiness and reason. They imitated their creator and extruded even more base creations, eventually creating the world and its creatures. At that point though, the work was so degraded no animal could think with greater complexity than a dog. To simulate children, the ‘gods’ tore pieces from the uberdivinity and put the nascent souls into the various races. Though he does not consider the world evil, it is flawed and nothing compared to reunion with Brahman.
Supheter is a mystic, despite his Supernal training. Or, perhaps because of it; he derives some of the same effects as clerics without any oracular communion. He remains unconvinced that they hear the voices of the ‘gods.’ In this fashion, he rationalizes the idea that both magical traditions are mechanistic rather than divine communion. Not that he wants to speak to intermediaries anyway. The Enneadin maintain records of techniques some have used to achieve gnosis.
I vacillate over the methods to bring this about. The traditional answer involves increasing ascetic meditation. That is nice but more suited to a sedentary NPC than me. I am tempted to use a variation on activating the Hindu chakras. Each two months are devoted to invoking one sphere: instincts, sensuality, saity, emotion, identity, and consciousness. The invocation could involve either a tantric/zen-like dedication toward the aspect or a period of excess then renunciation, to mock the mortal shell. I suspect this would seem indulgent in this campaign. However, I do imagine milestone-type goals that either mock the material, yet assist communion. I will locate and translate mystic texts of the more primal peoples: goblins, gnolls, whoever. I will make a pilgrimage to a particularly holy place [a black hole because of its infinity] and meditate. I will create a homunculus and observe the failure of the creator in myself. In the far future, I would rhapsodize with angels, Lovecraft’s elder gods, and the fey. I know all these diverge from the group because Garrett already incepted the Carthaginian Movement. Or perhaps I should ignore this past. This bears discussion.
[Again, depending upon whether I should not know about the Baron’s unethical behavior.] The Enneadin are spiritual Luddites. The more driven members desired my protection to effect discordian-type conversion on the mainstream clerics. Members would ambush a lone cleric, kidnap him or her, and proselytize the drugged victim. I only participated once, but another court faction deduced a scheme and I was arrested. Only the Baron’s grudging intervention saved me from public scandal. From that time forward, he excluded me from his inner circle. I went abroad again as his ambassador in the kingdom to escape my shame. I had returned from some other region just as the indenture loggers decided to branch into slaving. The rest will be recorded history.
I hope that is copacetic and jives with your goals. I would like more information about the Baron, if only to speak about how he used to be. Perhaps also a fourth grade summary of recent history. Your game minutes hint at the barest outline because you already told it to Garrett and Cory. We should discuss how much space there is for meditation or the alternative. I suspect little because they prefer to march to the gang’s hideout and kill them rather than co-opt their leadership.
N Prado
