I created Walds as described, a ‘minimalist.’ Next, I created Virgil (in Chase’s first campaign) as a rogue reformed into a cleric. The downtime between these and the current arc offer opportunities to cast about for a suitable personality. It is possible I go about it incorrectly.
To wit, some options I considered for Supheter were a pseudo-Nietzschesean, a roman-type slave, a person on a gnosis quest, or a member of a mystery cult. There are more, but I will keep them in reserve for other games. Immediately, you can see I knew the limitation of transposing real world philosophies because there is no such thing as a Nietzschesean in a D&D world.
Someone can believe in Eternal Recurrence and maintain Amor Fati, but little else of his greater framework survives. There is no dominant world-spanning altruistic faith sapping Man’s potential. There is no question people can independently form their own world-view because so many deities represent a great variety. In this sense, the Ubermensch has less need to be, especially because there is an intuitive, immanent hierarchy of powerful beings and races clearly superior to humans (intellectually and potently). At best, a fantasy denizen can adopt the skeptical moral independence Nietzsche continually argued for.
Despite this, I chose to dedicate Supheter’s life to achieving Gnostic Illumination. This also suffers because it is a terribly common event. Clerics of any faith daily pray for divine energy to fuel their spells, which indirectly implies contact. The reality depends upon the dungeon master’s chosen cosmology (avatars walk the earth, intermediate spirits actually handle the clerics, or any of a dozen other options). At the very least, it wasn’t totally insipid because a) he is a wizard, not a cleric; and, b) he wants to contact the god above conventionally worshipped gods. Nevertheless, this presents a deep conflict in me in terms of justification as well as portraying my convictions. This is the primary obstacle I mean to overturn via my rambling.
The second aspect of his personality I fret about wasn’t on the list above, but I desired all the same. In the months before my friends invited me to join the current campaign, I watched the entire Lost saga with my sister prior to the fifth season. Benjamin Linus functions as the primary antagonist and plot mover after his introduction. He embodies the wicked manipulator archetype. Via his privileged knowledge, he maneuvers others into serving him - deliciously against their will. While any villain worth his salt employs some of the same tactics, the writers had him play it so consistently, it left an indelible desire to perform the same. Perhaps DMing would be a more appropriate means of satisfying this, but I tried to incorporate it into my early conception of Supheter.
The point wasn’t to stand at odds with the other players. (However, I did make notes to that effect as a contingency. I felt like I understood my peers much better afterward.) I also had bought a book about Transactional Analysis, which is a very cool psychological school concerned with Games People Play. I intended to make this an attitude and problem solving style rather than a Machiavellian goal. I have not evinced this much in play and don’t feel as committed to this aspect of my character any longer.
