Last time I noted what form Supheter’s lifetime goals would be in service to enabling Gnostic experience of hQe. In this slice of life and as team player, those are luxury. So, I am left to wonder how to show his dedication. This must not only serve his religious dimension, but also keep within expected boundaries. His ‘monotheism’ is not popular by any means. However, I also need to give some indications to the group anyway. While secret conversations with Chase are nice, they need to feel the shadow of my difference if I am to maintain any mystery. (Blurting out Barabelam’s presence and intention ate a great portion of that, to my lasting chagrin.) Where appropriate, I mention that I meditate.
Yes, the great Asian standby for occult concentration. Properly understood, westerners practiced it as well. Praying for hours or numbing oneself to a hair shirt requires the discipline equal to Raja Yoga. It just seems a bit banal to me that a single activity could be the key. Zenites and other Buddhists disagree by cultivating absence during every activity, whether cooking, training, or during unwieldy archery.
Meditation, though, somewhat serves the attitude an Enneadin would have in a world awash divine spells. Wizardly magic no longer bothers me. It is the equivalent of applied science here. The bare mechanics make a cleric the same, but it should be like an ‘art:’ illusion, painting, or argument. There is a sense where the cleric is chosen and another where shhe negotiates for the power granted daily. Martin Luther has no providence here. Supheter’s peers maintain even lower standards (for satisfaction). I described him as a spiritual Luddite to Chase. Really, he is the equivalent of a real world alchemist or witch.
Hereby, I align him in faith with Aleister Crowley, Madame Blavatsky, and Agrippa, because this is unquestionably a faith-centered organization. Besides the legends of disintegration and pronouncements of the ‘illuminated,’ there is no proof of iQi’s existence. They do not cast spells from it. They dedicate their lives to communicating with a formlessness that can’t reasonably transmit anything back. The few who interview second (or even first) sons about iQi dismiss denial of a higher infinitude as the conspiracy’s cover-up.
Despite my light conflict here, I can use magician’s historical techniques in my favor. There are materials at hand I will mine for inspiration. Most of Crowley’s declarations are online. I have a similar anthology from Paracelsus as well as modern practicioners. On the whole, these lie unread. These titillate but I can not muster a real world lobotomy to believe them with any force. As with Plato’s dialogs, it only really persuades if you half agree with them at the start. (Phaedo begins with all Socrates’ students disagreeing with him about the duration of souls until he throws down the ‘trump card:’ oh, but you believe in the Forms don’t you? Well then I got you by the [hair], fools because the soul is a Form and they be everlasting.) One essay in The Book of Lies also makes an uncomfortable transition. It began with the recontextualization that all speech and argument constitute spells cast on other people to bewitch them under your will. And thereby, words and concepts have power over events and – bam – sigils are the same thing just on the environment. I exaggerate but this small lever on Supheter feels a bit useless because he is still alien to my mostly empiricist worldview. At least I can parrot their ravings after some research.
