I roleplay as Supheter Iulian with my friends in our Dungeons and Dragons sessions. You can read my descriptions of the sessions on my primary weblog. However, I chose a difficult personality for Supheter that requires a bit more dedication to embody than some others. Frankly, it isn’t so alien to me as, say, a goliath (4.0 race of stone people), but near enough because of my particular challenges.
This and subsequent posts are my free-flowing thoughts and research about his character and formation. It is cool if you are beginning with me here, but I don’t plan to really structure this narrative for consumption until much later, when all these ideas cohere. Until then, I will wax philosophic about personality, ficticious religion, and Supheter himself.
Basically, I am warning you that these are for me and I’ll tell you when I feel confident enough to bother with third person and avoiding the passive tense and all those niceties that normal published work requires. I mention this twice because I have written two false starts to this project over the course of some months. Each time, the task of organizing my thoughts (as for an audience) as a prelude to the exercise of organizing my thoughts was too frustrating. So, I no longer regard leading you through to my, as yet, unestablished conclusions. This is just about putting words on paper to a theme.
Enjoy.
Supheter Iulian is a wizard. I have wanted to test a wizard for a while but generally allow the group to dictate the unfilled spot. This is because they typically begin a campaign amongst themselves and deign to include me some levels afterward. The only exception has been during the second campaign that I participated in that Rob DMed.
I do not resent this. It offers some benefits in flexibility that an organic character can not match. Because the others have played for a while, they can tell me what they need better than simply choosing their own best and hope it coheres enough for future challenges. D&D 4.0 is especially forgiving in this sense because – unlike previous iterations – a character can retrain most any ability, even if it isn’t time to receive a new one. With a fresh character, I needn’t wait the entire period to rebalance them because I choose a solid foundation rather than two spells and a commitment to pursuing a path. The delicious perk is in choosing equipment. While a good DM will stock some treasure to a particular character, it is more satisfying to look at the unending rows of magic items and sentence myself to my own best guess about what I should use.
So I felt quite gratified that their group, the Vanguard, lacked the character I most wanted to play, a wizard. In the first campaign I joined with Rob as Dungeon Master, I became Roland a dark paladin. The others had played their campaign for years to its moral limits at a really gritty level. Basically, they were poor but skilled enough to kill and loot the peasants of the realm. They probably faced monsters occasionally, but when they first told me about it, it sounded like they were (or nearly so) evil characters just dicking around Fantasia.
I had never participated in a roleplaying game before so I wanted to take it easy and blend in with their campaign, mainly to learn. So I chose an evil character (though frankly, I was never played him that way nor planned to) as a fighter. In this newest iteration, no class is harder to learn than any other because Wizards of the Coast – the publishers – incorporated a ‘powers’ system. Basically, every class makes a selection of spells or combat moves that can be used at differing frequencies. This is essentially what a wizard has mostly been in all iterations (but daily frequency only) except with a huge selection of spells. Before TSR sold the rights to D&D, they printed four volume encyclopedia sets of wizard spells, priest spells, and magic items. (I have all three and only priest spells lacks one volume.)
So, from the standpoint of a new player approaching AD&D (the system Rob began with), a fighter is mostly the easiest to play and learn from. The only real abutment with large selection involves your favored weapon, but everyone faces that dilemma (or not depending upon the DM). After that, roleplay and swing at foes while trying to keep out of the other’s attack paths. But, Rob suggested that if I were to play as an evil fighter, I might as well upgrade to a dark paladin and gain some spells. Further, it would directly conflict with another player’s character: Garrett’s paladin.
Look, I am still addicted to narrative. While this seems tangential, even to me, eventually it would get to relevant topics. Namely, I would examine my history creating characters for two of Rob’s campaigns, one of Cory’s Vampire: the Masquerade campaigns, and two of Chase’s campaigns. While this sounds like a lot of turnover, the entire period has lasted eight years or so. And, Chase has explicitly set both of his campaigns later in Rob’s timeline. We are revisiting Roland’s choices even three campaigns removed. Of course, they feel a greater nostalgia because they appreciated their initial characters more. I regard Roland as a weak stand-in for me personally.
That is a fear that has followed me in every campaign. It is nice to make an elf who fought in the last great war as a spy, but if I essentially make all his decisions based on how I, Nicholas, would react in those circumstances, the backstory is moot. I have seen a compelling argument that a player ought choose a simple to understand personality distinct from one’s own. The silver standard, as far as I regard other’s characters, involved someone playing as a country bumpkin who joined that particular group described and an adventuring career in general. It is simple, distinct, has a potential for depth and change. Further, it predicates itself on the assumption that the character is as ignorant of the larger world as the player necessarily begins as. Hell, I may just play as a bumpkin in the next campaign.
But, I didn’t and haven’t taken such an easy route. My second character, Walds, was a reductionist fighter. While it sounded exotic to try to apply Occam’s razor to every challenge, Walds presented the same problem as a one-issue political party. How does that apply to, say, figuring out whether a possessed sorceress is a greater danger captured by our enemies or attacking us herself? How about figuring out how to resolve the demon/devil Blood Feud? I did some research about minimalism, but it came to nothing because it had no bearing on the challenges Walds faced. In the end, I played as Nicholas the fighter in all but name.
And so, here I am again, with an a priori created personality, driven by desires that mostly do not cohere with anything in the setting or the underlying philosophy of Dungeons and Dragons as a whole. Yet, it is not hopeless. While I know I lose him a lot, I do face more relevant personal crises that can be solved within the framework I began with. I must keep it from degenerating into a two dimensional response, but I am certain, with research and expression, I can fill out one of those hundred question writer surveys about a protagonist’s choices without pulling answers out of my ass. I’ll begin describing the problem in the next post (maybe with a bit more of my roleplaying legacy, maybe not).
End-joy.
