Although a shame I did not record what happened during the previous session, I remembered the essential details to decide my next actions. I will help ‘Miranda’ disrupt the dragon’s summoning. Before I do that, I need to play a shell game.
I wake, eat and divide the powder in the chest into three sacks. I also fill two more sacks with a worthless material, flour or sand. If I have no sacks, I use baskets with a piece of drapery for a lining. I pry up a floorboard and put in a dummy sack. With one last look for sentimental items (a former lover’s portrait by a street artist), I leave to my neighbors’ houses. I expect some are abandoned and some are not. I approach one of the stragglers and offer them a bottle of wine if they hide a dummy sack in their house. I go to one of the abandoned houses and pry up a floorboard and leave a sack with real powder. I go to another abandoned house a little farther off, pry up a floorboard, and leave nothing. [Contingent on your acceptance, I make one more stop.]
Although the Enneadin have long been dispersed, I expect we kept a cache in the city. We charmed a rich citizen and had a small, outside cabinet built into his coal pile box without telling him. [I couldn’t think of a better answer.] Here we left money, supplies, paraphernalia, and – most importantly – ciphered messages about where we would meet next. Others already removed the valuable materials. I take its current stock of surplus Enneadin literature: an extra cipher book, two copies of our “bible,” a tattered treatise on whether the stars in the sky are captured demons chained to the dome of heaven. I leave another bag of the powder in the dead-drop and walk to my destination. If I feel I am actually followed (instead of wasting time), I go behind my formerly favorite restaurant and putter about for five minutes digging and refilling a shallow hole. In all, I try to spend no more than half an hour hiding these bags. In sum, I keep one with me, one in the first abandoned house, and one in the Enneadin cache.
I head to wherever I agreed to meet Miranda to inform her of Citric’s success. If she asks for the powder, I offer the bag I have. If she demands more, I insist she inform me what (ritual?) she needs it for. Then I lead her to the two bags or go alone. If she asks about my paranoia, I answer that I feared kobolds might track me and take the powder. If she sends an armed escort instead of accompanying me, I tell him we need four bags. The last bag I retrieve is the decoy I left with my cowed neighbors. I remain vigilant for a sneak attack the whole trip.
That is about all I can prepare for.
