I delayed today because I went to Los Angeles for an appointment this morning.
After descending from the tower, Supheter felt some quiet anxiety. He knew that his honesty was exactly what Harken needed to sustain himself against despair. Supheter still could not shake the fear that Miranda’s subordinates simply had incredible discipline rather than no Common comprehension. The die was cast nevertheless.  He smoothed his features by the time he reached her room again. He thanked her for her infinite patience, the scroll, and promised to return by nightfall. Supheter bowed his head to his chaparones and set out.
As noted earlier, Supheter needed a second bag of the powder. He headed toward the abandoned house to pry up its floorboard. In front of the spot, he cleared the furniture and did not lift the trap. Instead, he related what Citric reported the night before. Whether they pretended or not, it was best to inform them anyway.
“I am a wizard and will attempt to attack groups of our foes as most of my spells bathe an area in energy. I wish I could organize tactics between us, but your admirable reserve forces me to monologue. A compatriot passed through the room last night in the basement of the inn. At the time, he saw [five demons? I have forgotten]. The basement has two levels, one lower than the other. We must kill or drive off all its occupants because our goal is in the next room. Inside is a portal to a magically sealed prison. If I do not disable the portal, the dragon may aquire components to replace those I have stolen from it. There may be several Kobolds in that room; there were last night. We must proceed with extreme caution. A great number of the floor tiles are continually electrified. Our enemies know which are safe, so you can step where they do. Otherwise, treat the center three-quarters of the room as though the entire surface were trapped. My ally reported it was a checkerboard grid, I suspect some asymmetry, especially in front of the portal. Make sure not to fall inside the portal as you may not be able to return.”
“I expect that the dragon will have doubled the guard in wake of my actions. It may have even performed a ritual to decrease its size or take on biped form. It may have stationed itself outside and lay in wait. If we come across it, know it is a red dragon of young or full adulthood. If you have any attacks or weapons that exude cold, strongly consider expending or equipping them then. Further, it possesses a dark artifact. I have seen it can create an impenetrable darkness. Likely, the skull will furnish it with still greater danger I cannot predict. I plan to open by putting some asleep. Attacking the victims will ruin the effect. If there are guards outside I will put them to sleep. I trust we are all up to the task. Thank you for your cautious attention.”
Supheter opened the hiding spot and hopefully took the second bag. If it was not there, he sighed and continued anyway. When one block away, he tried to lead the three quietly so they would not be seen by anyone inside the inn. If there was a guard in front or looking out the window, Supheter cast sleep on it so the others could perform a coup de grace. If not, they continued quietly to the basement door. He swung the door open as slowly as possible and crawled down the steps until he could see the tops of the demon’s heads. Supheter tried to put a group to sleep. If it failed, he moves in and signals for the others to join in attack. (Given Citric’s success last night I can not be sure, but I suspect that these are illusions.) 
Supheter expends his encounter attacks first. If one of the opponents has not died by the time they are spent, I use my daily spell that is not a fireball. Otherwise, I rely on at will attacks the rest of the encounter. If I sense the dragon is present, I cast ray of frost against it exclusively for most of the encounter. If two of my companions die, I retreat. If we kill all these opponents, we enter the second room after five minutes. I engage in the same tactics though I reserve my daily spells unless we are outnumbered by three times our number. If we defeat all of the (kobolds?), I look for more spell components or the spellcaster’s book. I mark the tiles we know are safe with some gravel from the last room. I check the rest with a long object. I hope there are planks from the boxes; but if not, I push a corpse onto the untested tile and wait for smoldering.
I do not trust you in Miranda’s guise. I would not put it past her to have me cast a ritual that will repurpose the portal to an area with her allies. If we did not kill the dragon in either of these rooms, I begin her ritual. It will eventually replace the components and goons if I do not. If I sense we did kill the dragon, I will forbear from casting the ritual. If the Lts block my path, I will perform the ritual. I direct them to aid me. The player’s manual indicates that even characters without the ritual casting feat can help in some small way. If they steadfastly refuse, I attempt it alone.
When the ritual is cast, failure or no, I return to the castle. I tell the paladin what happened at the inn. I expect my escort will separate, so I go eat lunch. Then I ask the beings outside her room if Miranda is in. I admit her aides likely informed her, but describe the encounter to her. If I did not cast the ritual because the dragon is dead and she presses me for a reason, I explain that no one else would insert spell components into the chamber for the demon. The task can wait until she lends me a spellcaster minion or I ask the sheriff for willing people to help me with the ritual. I must not waste the powder without assurance that I have minimized the risk of failure.
If she is not about, I listlessly check Pince’s room for anything left behind. Either way, I clear a space on his desk and begin translating Spah’s ritual book into my own. I continue to check for Miranda at the completion of each ritual or hourly, whichever is longer. When either two hours or rituals are translated (whichever is shorter), I slip a note under the Baron’s door with a summary of the encounter. If someone had taken the second bag, I leave the castle. While actively checking for followers, I make a circuitous route to the dead drop to see if it has been discovered as well. If so, I leave a note to that effect. I finish the day in Pince’s room or one with a bed after telling the sheriff where I am.
I await her response.
