Perhaps Chase would appreciate a secondary resource for people interested in his D&D campaign.
I am Supheter Iulian. I returned from a trip to [some place] representing the Baron Harken’s interests. A group of slavers intercepted my own and captured me. The kidnappers realized my value and kept me alive. Sometime later, the local Vanguard chapter reached my location at the same time monstrous spiders attacked. I ‘awoke’ to Eldrith cutting my bonds. As I wandered the camp, I strove to understand the factions present. Citric and Rayne captured the leader of the camp. It seems they demanded some ransom for his safety. A doppelganger imitated the indentured servants to steer them toward Fallcrest. Eldrith knew of more slave camps so I endeavored to liberate more fellow citizens.
We chanced upon a stone bulwark. Spa, the imitator, drew out the guards for a quick dispatch. A portcullis raised freed still more, including one who recognized me. This set off the south division’s suspicion of me, though I can not imagine why. Nevertheless, distance induced them toward Harkenwold. I assured the four that the Baron will sincerely thank them.
Citric scouted ahead of the long train of people and observed the dragon recently harrying the city. Again I saw a direct course to protect my benefactor, as I had noticed the adventurers seemed more capable than the city guards. We left the crowd in the dubious hands of the “follicle-mancer.” The dragon occupied the top of an abandoned keep. The dense snowfall empowered his own vanguard, a female who constructed snow golems and skeletons to defend the bottom two levels. She managed to escape by ‘invisibility,’ and her potential presence played heavily on our minds. The dragon had slept during these encounters but awoke as Spa triggered a trap in its horde.
The ensuing battle confronted me with my limitations more rudely than in many years. All had spent their spectacular techniques throughout the preceding day and we fought during the witching hour. We holed up in a small room to wait for the dragon to tire to no avail. It began a ritual to (likely) assume a smaller form. We pressed and ran on fumes a bit before scattering into the night. I understand Spa gave the dragon some cursed object with conflicting consequence. Citric had the foresight to steal the dragon’s flying carpet and we dejectedly returned to the amassed villagers.
Here we ended the session intending to lead the mob to safety. No binding decision emerged.
