Let’s begin by addressing your family’s history. I believe they are both suitable backgrounds and so now the only real course of action left is to place them in the game setting. Your mother’s family could have made quite a living with their sheep herds about two or three generations ago, when the kingdom of Prasiolaire began its slow expansion to the northern territories. Either by means of relocation, or simply convenience of plot, they found themselves south of the witchwood, which is now known as Harkenwood and serves as the southern barrier out of the Nentir Vale, the current focus of the campaign. Your father’s background lends itself somewhat to a life of travel, so him being in the area for his involvement and eventual marriage to your mother makes sense, if only for lack of need for a more intricate background. Having a sister seems fine, and realistic, as none of the other group members have any family members, or care to describe them. 

As an aside, I find it humorous that a charismatic figure that extolled certain values of logic and critical thinking to his children would be planting the seeds of a wizard. You never really hear why a person decides to devote their lives to books and learning, as opposed to Sorcerors, whose lives are dominated with the events involved in discovering their knack for the arcane. 

To explain the local wizard aspect, let me give you some history on how the kingdom of Prasiolaire has functioned in regards to expansion in the past several hundred years. When a territory becomes suitable for conquering, an ambassador is sent to offer them a civil surrender in lieu of several years of bloody war, political intrigue, etc. This first step has only yielded success on one occasion, and is more of a formality / warning than anything; for the Nentir Valley, there wasn’t so much a singular power to confront so much as a vast area to control. The next several steps occur mostly in unison, but the important one for this discussion is the promise to current citizens of free or cheap land, and improved conditions with those already in positions of wealth. With your mother’s family, a contract could have easily been drawn up wherein they would maintain sheep and fallow land along the valley and hills leading into the north. In return for populating the area and providing much needed resources to the kingdom, the family could enjoy making a name for themselves in the area and all of the luxuries that wealth can afford NPCs in the game world. This is how, on the lowest scale, incentives work with the first step of conquest; it is a method preferred by a Crown that has plenty of time to wait for its crop to come to harvest. 

Soon, an area once riddled with verdant wildlife and overgrowth common place to wilderness in D&D, including all of the dangers that go with it, is now becoming a well-tended area where roads from the heart of the kingdom in the south can now be well patrolled and pushed ever farther north. Small villages spring up, merchant caravans are established, and then there are the wizards. For an individual whose life is beyond the humdrum of ordinary NPCs, incentives to live in such an area usually involve being left alone and given plenty access to certain interests; for Romulo Tepis, an encroached wilderness offered up its secrets as the once-proliferate denizens such as kobolds, ogres, etc. began to die off at the hands of an eager kingdom, whose cultures are universally passed down in oral tradition. Whether he existed as part of a community college for collaborate arcane study, or instead struck out on behalf of a curious Enneadin, that is a minor item of flavor. As a wizard in an out of the way, yet well defended, well traded town, with plenty of research to be done, taking in another pupil such as yourself was nothing short of symbiotic. For reference, this relationship is not conventional in a world of Robert Jennings wizards; the attraction to sights yet unseen (or unplundered at any rate) and holding sway over his or her very own wizard college, or perhaps a singular tower with several pupils, is a recent development that primarily human wizards have been interested in. The atypical Jennings wizard has little need for wealth, or continued knowledge; they are simply the paramount arcane beings and have little desire for collaboration, or outside interaction beyond screwing over a passing player-character. I’ll come back to these arch-wizards later in the document.

Before I get into the Enneadin, I want to describe Baron Harken’s past, as it ties in with my explanation of how kingdom conquest works. Growing up as a simple logger, Thomas Harken’s family hoped to live in the same area as your own. With the sudden economic boom, the demand for lumber was perhaps the greatest of all. Several entrepreneurs had already established themselves by the time the Harken family made its way from the south in true Oregon Trail style to the land of your birth, and thus they pushed on, into the northern forests of witchwood. They faced the perils that the Nentir Vale had to offer a hundred years ago (note: Baron Harken is, at the time of the campaign, nearly 80 years old), including the indigenous orc tribes and the cold, unreceptive elves that frowned upon logging in their ancestral home. Growing up in this harsh environment instilled a strong work ethic in young Thomas, and his family did well in their trade for the next several decades. Again, economics came into play, and soon the attraction grew; trade routes were solidified, and more villages began to spring up in the area that is now Harkenwold. The huge clearing in the middle of the forests you see on the world map are entirely the doing of these loggers, the small villages serving as little more than camps for families or businesses to reap what success they could from the bounty of the forest. 

Middle-aged and with a reasonable savings, Thomas Harken decided to unite some of the more agreeable family-villages into a larger, singular town, coming to this consideration after hearing rumors of a large city (what would become Fallcrest) being born in the north. The town was originally known as White Crossing, and immediately faced the added danger of being a solitary community for elves, raiders, and other hostile forces to focus upon. While the rest of the Nentir Valley grew, and Prasiolaire made ready its occupational forces, Harken dealt with the emergencies of day to day life in a frontier town. Fallcrest would eventually unite into an extremely successful city-state, made up of the indigenous human population, with a gracious amount of dwarvish expatriates and Halflings tired of living in Ryan Town (located in the northwest of the valley). Given that Supheter has the highest History skill, and the fact that he’s privy to the knowledge, I will go into detail on the Valley at a later time. As it concerns Harken, Fallcrest was just another area to trade with, though he was jealous at times of their security and economic success, especially when winter came and the elves of witchwood were at their worst. 

In the days before the war, the kingdom of Prasioaire moved several hundred soldiers through the now well-established route from the south to the north. The Dwarves of Hammerhold did not appreciate their presence in the valley, as it lent itself only to their eventual downfall; Prasiolaire had been successful, in the several hundreds of years leading up to this point, in conquering the various States around the known world. Hoping to keep their homeland, both above ground and below, free from any imposed empire, the dwarves began to strike up alliances throughout the fledgling valley. There were several areas of battle during the war, but the Harkenwold served as one of the most trafficked. 

This brings me to the final relevant point of incentive for citizens, and one that seems to play a recurring role in the campaign. Queen Nolfia of Prasiolaire seems very eager to hand out titles and appoint fiefdoms, and this scenario was no different. Thomas Harken, a man who had already his own castle and much of the trust of the people in the area, was an ideal candidate under this guideline. He was offered, and accepted, the title of Baron and soon the area became known as it now is. He was no military genius, but found plenty of it from the seasoned men of the south. His involvement in the war helped tipped the scales greatly. After the war ended, and the Days of Black Rain had transformed much of the valley’s landscape into wasteland, Supheter would have had plenty of work going from a military attendant (butler) to a man of diplomacy; there were indeed food riots following the war to be quelled and many small communities to politicize with. While he busied himself with these items, we both know the events that followed that would cast a gloom over his reputation in the Baron’s court, and his eventual place in the party. 

Now, as for why the group considers the Baron evil... I am going to assume most of it is ignorance, or a simple lack of trust. Many NPCs, especially those in places of power, have betrayed the group already. Baron Harken is not the only one to have accepted a title in return for supporting the Queen, and such NPCs the group have run into thus far have been met with suspicion on that merit alone; for a campaign whose ultimate quest is to usurp the crown, it’s much easier (for them) to kill the royals than to fraternize. Ultimately, I do not consider Baron Harken just another pawn placed down in a town to be the Queen’s eyes or ears (See: Fallcrest and Lord Markelhay): he does not willingly deal in slavetrade and, at least when you were near him, he was an upstanding character of the Lawful Good persuasion. Perhaps your character trying to explain this will be an interesting point of dialogue. With the advent of Renfophylax, and lack of any support from the Queen, Harken is faced with difficult times, however…

---

Moving on to the Enneadin. I really like their approach to how gods work, their history, and all the like. Certainly, given enough time, the characters will find themselves communing with the gods and the troubles they face. For a character that approaches their existence in a philosophical way, I foretell that endpoint being an exciting bit of character development. Indeed the source of divine or arcane power is not, at least in a Jennings world, explicitly tied to deities or other beings of power, so a mechanistic outlook is entirely probable. For members of the Enneadin, Sechen is no more a mischievous creation of the originator, taunting the collective races as a child would a mindless hive of ants, while Moradin cares for his children as a smith to his forge. 

Secret societies such as the Enneadin exist more often than not in a world where clerics, wizards, warlocks, and any other arcane class are given to extreme power and mystery (perhaps in lieu of any real mechanical benefit with the advent of D&D 4.0). The Mages of Sechen, for example, have followed their patron’s footsteps into reclusion, searching for mysteries and other non-palpable treasures (as Sechen could easily have those). While the MoS may be concerned with arcane secrets so often tied to D&D type games (How to Destroy the World, how to Create Gold from Hay), the Enneadin present an enclave interested in the secrets of the universe, the self, and other topics generally unseen in these settings.

I’m sure whatever you do to express this agenda in-game will be met with less respect than deserved (remember: some of these people roleplay to the capacity that we did in early highschool), I still think it will be fun, for me, to have a character that brings such things to the table.

If you have anything in particular you want me to go into further detail on, please ask. I don’t think we’ll be playing for another week or two, due to scheduling concerns.
