Town is mining with iron beside the boiling river. The baron accepts tribute with little question at this point. It is a parish for Ra.

Walds' grandfather (mother's side), Gregs, owned a great deal of mining equipment and acted as foreman to a team of miners he hired. Quite prominent, successful and misogynist. The qualities he brought to work (a domineering manner with a short fuse) he brought home, beating his wife and terrorizing his daughter. Fathers his two children, Gladys (Walds' mother) and Mertz (uncle). He wanted his son to take over as foreman when he died, which Mertz was driven from by rejecting everything about his father (because of how he treated his older sister). So, he often visited the scholarly atmosphere of the Ra temple when he could escape working under his father. What he admired was their lifestyles and not their occupation, so he swore to disavow himself from the mining company the moment it became his in exchange for a life of book-learning. Mertz marries Benita.

Walds' father, Warren, came to the town when he was young and apprenticed to a boatwright. One of the people who also came but was barred emigration (a practice to prevent the town from emptying) was a wizard who moved to the fey side of the river to distance himself from the snide priests. Warren befriended him and attempted to partner so he could build better boats. Galdys and Warren found one another. She liked his protective loving manner, and he liked having someone to protect. Soon the Ra clerics found out about Warren's dealings and vowed to never heal him again.

Gregs died of old age at this point, working until a month before he died (barking orders from a chair). Mertz seized the opportunity to negotiate with the Baron to finally distance himself from working with his hands. He offered to turn over his father's assets to another loyal to the baron in return for a salaried advisorial position. The Baron agreed and sent his brother. There was a backlash to the "intrusion" and some of the miners refused to support another reminder of colonialism. The economy won out, however, as Gregs' holdings were the largest and the transfer was a legal one. Mertz and his family (including Gladys and Warren) were heceforth shunned. Walds was born and Benz (cousin) one year later.

When Walds turned four, Warren's arms were crushed by a startled horse and he bled to death without the church's assistance. Gladys, a dependant woman, despaired and begged Mertz to take Walds, knowing she would soon run out of money. Soon after, she tied stones to her waist and walked as far as she could into the liquid heat of the river.

Mertz accepted Walds, Benita remained standoffish for a long while. Mertz schools Benz and Walds from his new library in the logician form he had adopted. However, he only played at being a strict logician. If something did not turn out as was logically required, he would doubt himself first and search for where he had gone wrong in his proof. (A nod to his different upbringing perhaps.) But this forced thinking and inability to justify premisses eventually turned both Benz and Walds away from devout pupilhood. They liked the method of thinking, recognizing its power, but rejected Mertz's fumbling. Benz decided that Mertz ignored the real world too much to be effective and sought out understanding of physics. He eventually found the Wizard and lived there intermittently as his student. Walds was convinced that Mertz crippled himself by adapting to the world's contradictions. (This is in the same way that Plato made the world the culprit of obscuring the Forms.) Though he would never verbalize it, Walds wants the world reduced to logic and simplicity. Here was founded his spartan aesthetic.

Benz and Walds did not escape the continued spite against Mertz's betrayal and fought much during their childhood. While Benz sought safety in his house and apart with the wizard, Walds did not avoid boys throwing rocks at him. He would take the opportunity to fight back as hard as was acceptable. This was done, not in the attitude of a bully or a prize fighter, but as one who regards violent confict an integral aspect of the human experience that must be perfected for one's survival.

The Baron's brother took a liking to Walds because of similarities in their character. Both believe men to be inherently evil and that it ought to be violently suppressed. Walds eventually was hired as a personal guard for his experience in repelling personal attacks (which continued until his last day). Walds expressed a desire to leave and eventually convinced him it would only be to guard the Baron. He grudgingly acquiesced (since he had few intimates in a lamely hostile town). Walds was granted one of the few permits to use the boats heading downriver and was well met by the Baron. Walds worked as a guard for one month before deciding that the Baron was overly secure to retain Walds as a guard (ie he grew bored). Walds traveled to wherever we first met with intent to act as a mercenary. The rest has been played out.