	Name/Age
Walds/20?

	Height (short average tall)
Average height

	Is Rational Selfishness an oxymoron?
Um. I guess not. One could reason out the best course of action. I haven't really thought about it.

	Are people inherently good?
No. Men have no instinctual path towards good and a day with a group of children will teach that they aren't neutral either.

	Are you Insecure about your appearance (or something else)?
No, I can't say that I am. I have even gotten over the need to let drinks sit before drinking them.

	If you had to nag me about one thing, what would it be?
Opulence. We are bombarded by useless esthetic guilding. People seek to cover the objects of their lives. Fighters, their weapons. Bards, their instruments. Et cetera, cetera. If you too follow the religion of pretty deposits I would hold an inward sneer.

	Opine on the Death Penalty
Yes, provided you are reasonably certain of guilt. [the violent response doesn't bother you?] Ah, you mean punishment in general. Even incarceration is violence or can employ violence to maintain it. Force is no strange bedfellow to Man; to pretend only Injustice can weild it safely is a grave error. [but what about institutional injustice?] Ah, noble of you to remember the possible innocents, hopefully matched by our own detectives' sentiments and efforts. Yet, two facts remain: nature is not so kind to innocence and forgoing punishment - even wrongfully administered - can result in more harm to innocents.

	Which is best: social, political, or economic power?


	Still afraid of the dark?


	Name something cool


	Opine on Socialism


	Name one of your favorite books and why


	Where does evil come from?


	Do you smoke?
No. If I want to waste money on consumption, I will waste it on food or better housing.

	Name one of your heroes and why


	Describe yourself using thirteen words exactly


	Name your religious affiliation
Realistically, I worship none of the gods. Though I may inwardly thank a priest's patron for bestowing its magic in my aid (mostly Hera since I travel with Corsh). I would be a disciple of Ra had they not disowned my entire family. I feel no loss there.

	What do you listen for in music?


	What is one of your hot-button issues?


	Opine on Equality


	Anything else to get off your chest?


