
I'm thinking of a human warlock beholden to the Great Old One. He is obsessed with going to the moon, which is some of why he made that pact. I might play him a little two faced: alternately obsequious and seething.

Potential names 	Yaml(uke) Cobb . Dodd(erick) Cobb . Mertz Cobb

From a town -Rotstappe- a south west providence. Middle child (older brother, younger sister) of a cobbler and a seamstress. In early teens, I saw a celestial fall from the sky. We spoke briefly; it said it was once human. This crystallized a long held escapism with a desire to go where it came from to become similarly vibrant.

Married the daughter of a dye merchant (arranged), but she died in childbirth a year afterward. I harassed a visiting wizard into mentoring me, but I hadn't enough 'whatever' to get it in the time frame available. I buried my head in tailorship.

Eventually a local lord comissioned a full winter outfit. The appointment started and ram late, so I accepted an invitation to stay the night. I heard whispers all night and until the lord - a vampire - woke me. Rather than drain me, he relayed a vision from his patron that I be offered the path to one day visit it. Ambivalently, I accept and underwent the ritual to become a warlock.

I joined an adventurering group for a while. Greatest success: expelled an aboleth that had convinced a huge fungus colony to undermine the surrounding town. (The fungus was upset that the tannery was dumping runoff into the caverns it lives in.) Worst failure: Tried to rescue a kidnappee from Gnolls, but saw a co-party member die and the kidnapee maimed. Party too poor to resurrect thim. We split up a couple months ago.

Maybe I'm in the Dwarf city to learn about starmetal or to case warehouses for the great one cult to loot later, if it ends up abandoned too.

Obsessed with eventually finding a spelljammer and travelling to the moon to join celestial society. (That I've not heard of celestials on the moon is a pedantic detail.) I occasionally send money to the dead co-party member's family so they can eventually afford a resurrection. I keep a chip on my shoulder about needing to buy my way to magic.








