
Octavia Lasombra Ursula Reyes Florit (nicknamed Octave), Warden Cadet
Human, Female, Ranger, Noble, Neutral, Good

Daughter of
Juante Murcielago Boniface Florit; father, Warden
Oscura Linda Septure Reyes; mother

Niece of
Luz Clarita Gris Boniface Florit; aunt, Hidalgo
Bombillo Matanza Soplado Amaris; uncle, deceased

Sister to
Artemio Negro Reyes Florit, brother, middle
Nublada Madeleine Valor Reyes Florit, sister, youngest

Cousin to
Vincente Oro Amaras Florit, elder
Lamparai Susana Amaras Florit, younger

They all live in the foothills of Pered that abut a mountainous region of Scandfalf [replace with real country name]. The regional lord or Fief or whatever awarded Luz' ancestors the parcel because they were able to form a nonagression pact with the stone giants of the ajoining mountains, who had prevented settlement.

Those ancestors did so by arranging an occasional contest with the Hidalgo. Each time, though, that person had on an heirloom, a belt of more than just giant strength. The agreement also came with normal alliance stuff, like paying a tithe to the giants. (maybe relaying messages between clans?) clearing their area of nuisances.

While the Hidalgo was expected to compete, most of the time, he or she governed from the manor in a normal style. Another family member was given role of warden, responsible for the mountainous area and interacting with the giants.

In this period, Luz is Hidalgo and Juante serves as Warden (Patrulla :B). As eldest, Octavia has studied the giants with her father and spent each summer, after coming of age, amoung them. (insofar as the giants permit)

She's betrothed to Lobo Solomon Colombo Chivez, a member of a nearby manor, of similar rank to her (which is to say, fairly removed from being Head of Household). Because of her prescribed role, she assumes he will join her family, rather than the other way. (His family hasn't agreed, which is some of why they're not married yet.)

Very recently, Octavia entertained a traveler named Remmina Sebolla. Ve claimed to be a wizard passing through. Ve convinced Octavia to let ver examine the belt for tens of minutes unsupervised. After Remmina had left, Octavia realized it had been swapped with a forgery (suggesting Remmina had it mostly prepared before arriving).
[I'm ambivalent about Remmina's gender]

After a day, Octavia confessed to her father and then the Hidalgo. (Given that her aunt or cousin could die without the belt on, during the contest in a year.) Basically, Octavia wants to die of shame right then. Beside themselves, they agree to let Octavia track down Remmina and the belt.

On the way to the coast, she learns that Remmina left for Besalt, likely with Madragals. She arrived here maybe a week before our first session and did some surveying work for the first shipful of Madragals.
